PPL: Add `json_extract` function (#3262)
opensearch-project/sql: docs/user/ppl/functions/json.rst

Example::

    > source=json_test | where json_valid(json_string) | eval json=json(json_string) | fields test_name, json_string, json
    fetched rows / total rows = 6/6
    +---------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------------------+
    | test_name           | json_string                         | json                        |
    |---------------------|-------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
    | json nested object  | {"a":"1","b":{"c":"2","d":"3"}}     | {a:"1",b:{c:"2",d:"3"}      |
    | json nested list    | {"a":"1","b":[{"c":"2"},{"c":"3"}]} | {a:"1",b:[{c:"2"},{c:"3"}]} |
    | json object         | {"a":"1","b":"2"}                   | {a:"1",b:"2"}               |
    | json array          | [1, 2, 3, 4]                        | [1,2,3,4]                   |
    | json scalar string  | "abc"                               | "abc"                       |
    | json empty string   |                                     | null                        |
    +---------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------------------+

JSON_EXTRACT
____________

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

> Usage: `json_extract(doc, path)` Extracts a json value or scalar from a json document based on the path(s) specified.

Reviewer: *path (singular), right?

Author: thanks fixed :)

Argument type: STRING, STRING

> Return type: BOOLEAN/DOUBLE/INTEGER/NULL/STRUCT/ARRAY

Reviewer: Does it return `MISSING` if the JSON string is missing?

Author: It will throw an error

- Returns a JSON array for multiple paths or if the path leads to an array.

> - Return null if path is not valid.

Reviewer: Do we want to specify here how a NULL or MISSING JSON string is handled?

Reviewer: It makes sense to me to throw an error if the `path` is `null` or `missing`, since this doesn't seem like it would be an expected use case. I'm a bit less sure about `doc`.

Is there a case where we might want to use `json_extract` on a JSON string field in a series of records, where it might potentially be `null` or `missing` for some records? In this case, I assume we wouldn't want an error. (We could, of course, add a `where` clause before to eliminate these `null` or `missing` records.)

What do other functions do? I know that the `cidr_match` function that I wrote returns `null`/`missing` if the IP address _or_ the CIDR range is `null`. Don't know if it _should_ do that, though (at least with respect to a `null` or `missing` CIDR range).

@acarbonetto any thoughts?

Example::

    > source=json_test | where json_valid(json_string) | eval json_extract=json_extract(json_string, '$.b') | fields test_name, json_string, json_extract
    fetched rows / total rows = 6/6
    +---------------------+-------------------------------------+-------------------+
    | test_name           | json_string                         | json_extract      |
    |---------------------|-------------------------------------|-------------------|
    | json nested object  | {"a":"1","b":{"c":"2","d":"3"}}     | {c:"2",d:"3"}     |
    | json nested list    | {"a":"1","b":[{"c":"2"},{"c":"3"}]} | [{c:"2"},{c:"3"}] |
    | json object         | {"a":"1","b":"2"}                   | 2                 |
    | json array          | [1, 2, 3, 4]                        | null              |
    | json scalar string  | "abc"                               | null              |
    | json empty string   |                                     | null              |

>     +---------------------+-------------------------------------+-------------------+

Reviewer: Should we have a test here for `null` and `missing` values? Or, as suggested in comment above, perhaps just a comment documenting the behaviour in those cases?

Author: Documentation only needs to document common uses for function but will state that error will be thrown if missing or null

Example::

    > source=json_test | where json_valid(json_string) | eval json=json(json_string) | fields test_name, json_string, json
    fetched rows / total rows = 6/6
    +---------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------------------+
    | test_name           | json_string                         | json                        |
    |---------------------|-------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
    | json nested object  | {"a":"1","b":{"c":"2","d":"3"}}     | {a:"1",b:{c:"2",d:"3"}      |
    | json nested list    | {"a":"1","b":[{"c":"2"},{"c":"3"}]} | {a:"1",b:[{c:"2"},{c:"3"}]} |
    | json object         | {"a":"1","b":"2"}                   | {a:"1",b:"2"}               |
    | json array          | [1, 2, 3, 4]                        | [1,2,3,4]                   |
    | json scalar string  | "abc"                               | "abc"                       |
    | json empty string   |                                     | null                        |
    +---------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------------------+

JSON_EXTRACT
____________

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

> Usage: `json_extract(doc, path)` Extracts a json value or scalar from a json document based on the path specified.

Reviewer: The documentation for the `json` function about says it returns a "JSON value", which seems to include scalars, arrays, and structs; here, we are using "json value" and "scalar" as separate possible return "types". We should probably be consistent between the two (and any future JSON functions as well)?

Author: added new comment

Argument type: STRING, STRING

Return type: BOOLEAN/DOUBLE/INTEGER/NULL/STRUCT/ARRAY

> - Returns a JSON array for multiple paths or if the path leads to an array.

Reviewer: Is there a better way to say this than "multiple paths"? My understanding is that it's not "multiple paths", but rather a single path that points to multiple value (semantics, I know 😆 ). What about something like "Returns a JSON array if the given path corresponds to multiple value, or if it points to a JSON array."

Author: updated description

> - Returns a JSON array if `path` points to multiple results (e.g. $.a[*]) or if the `path` points to an array.

Reviewer 2: JSON array is not a valid type in the context of `OpenSearchSQL`, in the case of the multiple matches, the json library will return a list, which then being translated to `ExprCollectionValue` via `return ExprValueUtils.fromObjectValue(results);` on your implementation, it's probably either STRUCT || ARRAY, but I'm not sure.

Author: for lists it will return an ARRAY

Reviewer 2: Thanks!

> - Return null if path is not valid is MISSING or NULL.

Author: fixed

- Throws SemanticCheckException if `doc` or `path` is malformed.
- Throws ExpressionEvaluationException if `path` is missing.

Example::

>     > source=json_test | where json_valid(json_string) | eval json_extract=json_extract(json_string, '$.b') | fields test_name, json_string, json_extract

Reviewer 2: You will need `os>` prefix to make execute a part of docsTest, or else it will be skipped, see `expressions.rst#49` for usage reference.

Reviewer 2: Same for the other examples within the file.

Author: added os

    | test_name          | json_string                          | json                                      |
    |--------------------+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------|
    | json nested object | {"a":"1","b":{"c":"2","d":"3"}}      | {'a': '1', 'b': {'c': '2', 'd': '3'}}     |
    | json nested list   | {"a":"1","b":[{"c":"2"}, {"c":"3"}]} | {'a': '1', 'b': [{'c': '2'}, {'c': '3'}]} |
    | json object        | {"a":"1","b":"2"}                    | {'a': '1', 'b': '2'}                      |
    | json array         | [1, 2, 3, 4]                         | [1,2,3,4]                                 |
    | json scalar string | "abc"                                | abc                                       |
    | json empty string  |                                      | null                                      |
    +--------------------+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+

JSON_EXTRACT
____________

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_extract(doc, path[, path])` Extracts a JSON value from a json document based on the path specified.

Argument type: STRING, STRING

> Return type: STRING/BOOLEAN/DOUBLE/INTEGER/NULL/STRUCT/ARRAY

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't we always return an ARRAY?

> Return type: STRING/BOOLEAN/DOUBLE/INTEGER/NULL/STRUCT/ARRAY

Author: in the case that only one string is provided, we return the associated type which will not be a json string. e.g. if path "$.a" is provided from json_string "{"a": 1}: then a integer is returned

> - Up to 3 paths can be provided, and results of each `path` with be returned in an ARRAY.

Reviewer 3: phrasing is a little confusing. 
```suggestion
- Up to 3 paths can be provided, and results of all possible `path`s will be returned in an ARRAY.
```

Author: resolved

- Returns an ARRAY if `path` points to multiple results (e.g. $.a[*]) or if the `path` points to an array.

> - Return null if `path` is not valid, or if JSON `doc` is MISSING or NULL.

Reviewer 3: null or empty array?

Author: in the case of multiple paths an array of nulls would be returned

- Throws SemanticCheckException if `doc` or `path` is malformed.

> - Throws ExpressionEvaluationException if `path` is missing.

Reviewer: Looks like this documentation might need some updates for multiple paths?
- Usage: `json_extract(doc, path[, path[, path[[)` (or another way to indicate that up to 3 paths can be provided)
- Usage: "based on the path(s) specified"
- Argument type: "STRING, STRING[, STRING[, STRING]] (or another way to indicate that up to 3 paths can be provided)
- What about the case where only one of the paths is invalid? Should this read "Returns null if _any_ `path` is not valid"? Similarly, should the last two bullets be updated to specify that they apply to "any `path`"?

Author: addressed

> - Throws ExpressionEvaluationException if `path` is missing.

Reviewer 3: why?

Author: this is not handled in code in this PR, this is the default error thrown if provided function does not matched defined schema for functions. Thrown by DefaultFunctionResolver.

    fetched rows / total rows = 6/6
    +--------------------+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
    | test_name          | json_string                          | json                                      |
    |--------------------+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------|
    | json nested object | {"a":"1","b":{"c":"2","d":"3"}}      | {'a': '1', 'b': {'c': '2', 'd': '3'}}     |
    | json nested list   | {"a":"1","b":[{"c":"2"}, {"c":"3"}]} | {'a': '1', 'b': [{'c': '2'}, {'c': '3'}]} |
    | json object        | {"a":"1","b":"2"}                    | {'a': '1', 'b': '2'}                      |
    | json array         | [1, 2, 3, 4]                         | [1,2,3,4]                                 |
    | json scalar string | "abc"                                | abc                                       |
    | json empty string  |                                      | null                                      |
    +--------------------+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+

JSON_EXTRACT
____________

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

> Usage: `json_extract(doc, path[, path[, path])` Extracts a JSON value from a json document based on the path(s) specified.

Reviewer 4: So, it accepts 1-3 paths. Why not array of paths then?

Argument type: STRING, STRING[, STRING[, STRING]]

Return type: STRING/BOOLEAN/DOUBLE/INTEGER/NULL/STRUCT/ARRAY

- Up to 3 paths can be provided, and results of all possible `path`s will be returned in an ARRAY.
- If only one `path` is provided, returns an ARRAY if `path` points to multiple results (e.g. $.a[*]) or if the `path` points to an array.
- Return null if `path` is not valid, or if JSON `doc` is MISSING or NULL.
- If multiple paths are provided with paths that are not valid, will return an ARRAY where results of invalid paths are null.
- Throws SemanticCheckException if `doc` or any `path` is malformed.
- Throws ExpressionEvaluationException if any `path` is missing.

Example::

>     os> source=json_test | where json_valid(json_string) | eval json_extract=json_extract(json_string, '$.b') | fields test_name, json_string, json_extract

Reviewer 4: Does it accept "legacy" path (path which starts with ".")? if yes, this should be tested and documented. If no, this should be documented.

    fetched rows / total rows = 6/6
    +--------------------+--------------------------------------+-------------------------+
    | test_name          | json_string                          | json_extract            |
    |--------------------+--------------------------------------+-------------------------|
    | json nested object | {"a":"1","b":{"c":"2","d":"3"}}      | {'c': '2', 'd': '3'}    |
    | json nested list   | {"a":"1","b":[{"c":"2"}, {"c":"3"}]} | [{'c': '2'},{'c': '3'}] |
    | json object        | {"a":"1","b":"2"}                    | 2                       |
    | json array         | [1, 2, 3, 4]                         | null                    |
    | json scalar string | "abc"                                | null                    |
    | json empty string  |                                      | null                    |
    +--------------------+--------------------------------------+-------------------------+

>     os> source=json_test | where test_name="json nested list" | eval json_extract=json_extract(json_string, '$.b[1].c') | fields test_name, json_string, json_extract

Reviewer 4: It will be kind of you if you post examples and description to the PR
